The term population refers to the number of persons inhabiting a particular place.
Population is Specific to a Place or Area
The unit may be a village, town or nation as a whole for which the population statistic is given. Population is counted at regular intervals of time. The study of various statistics related to the size, composition and changes in a population is known as demography. It is a discipline in its own right, and there are specialists who are experts in the field. Demographic studies reveal many different aspects of a population.
Population Statistics Are Collected Through a Census
A census is conducted in the whole nation to ascertain the population of all the villages, towns, cities and districts. This is a large scale exercise where ideally every person in the country should be included in the count. A census at a national level is a massive effort that involves people, who are part of the exercise, visiting every household in the country to collect information about every family member. A census provides information on population size, as also the age, gender, profession, religion and other details of the people.
The birth and death rates are also obtained from census figures. Birth rate refers to the annual number of live births per thousand of population. Death rate refers to annual number of deaths per thousand of population. The sex ratio is also obtained from a census. The sex ratio is the number of females per thousand males. The child sex ratio is also derived from census data, and it is the number of girls per thousand boys in the age group of 0-6 years. A declining child sex ratio indicates an unhealthy trend of discrimination against the girl child in society. The various ratios and parameters obtained from a census reveal many aspects of the population.
Population Size Impacts the Society, Economy and Environment
India is the second most populous country in the world. A large population means that there is a large working population that can engage in gainful employment. A large population also implies that there is a large market available. At the same time, a large population also casts a burden on the limited natural and other resources available. For instance, a large population puts a high demand on limited facilities such as housing. If the demand for housing is to be met not only has land to be made available from natural landscapes such as forests and grasslands, but high rise apartment buildings need to be built.