Love is a noble human quality. Love is what brings out the highest virtues of the human heart. Sacrifice, generosity, compassion, selfless service and empathy are the virtues that arise from love.
Love is the Highest Human Virtue
Love is the highest expression of the human heart. Where there is love there are no negative and destructive feelings of anger, greed, jealousy and revenge. Love seeks the welfare of the other. Love makes one think of another’s happiness and contentment rather than one’s own. Where there is love there is harmony, peace and joy. Care, concern and affection are expressed by one who loves.
Divine Love is the Noblest Expression of Love
Love for the divine is the highest form of love. Love of God helps one to be generous and compassionate with all human beings without any prejudice or bias of gender, religion, caste, race or colour of skin. When such persons see anyone in pain or discomfort, their heart goes out to help them. Similarly, those who see the divine in all life forms feel compassion and empathy for plants, animals, birds, and even the smallest creatures. Therefore, they never cause hurt or harm to any living being. In fact, they love even the natural features like the mountains, forests and oceans. They thus care for the natural environment too.
We can show Love to Our Parents, Teachers and Country
The love of parents for their offspring is very noble. Parents love their children selflessly. Parents gladly sacrifice their comforts and pleasure for the welfare and happiness of their children. Parents feel their happiness lies in their children’s happiness. Such is the love of parents for their children. Parents love their children without any expectations. Children also love their parents. They show their love through small acts of respect and gratitude to their parents. Children can help their parents when the parents turn elderly and dependent as they get weak in health.
Love is also expressed for one’s teacher. Teachers teach without any expectations from their student. Teachers share their highest intellectual and spiritual wealth with their students. Students can show their love for their teachers by being respectful, grateful and helpful in any small way.
One who serves one’s motherland also shows love of the nation. One who loves one’s country is willing to sacrifice one’s comforts and wealth for the welfare of the nation and its people. Similarly, it is love that makes one sacrifice for any noble cause. Love is indeed the noblest virtue we can give expression to.

