Long Paragraph on Trees are Green Gold
Trees are Nature’s bounties and are called as Green Gold. A tree full of brightly coloured and fragrant flowers is delightful. Trees make a landscape or any space we live in pleasing.
There are Many Different Types of Trees
Trees are of many different types. There are flowering ones, that bear flowers in a particular season or through the year. There are non-flowering ones too that do not bloom. Trees may be evergreen ones remaining green through the year, or may be deciduous, and shed their leaves annually, during a particular season. Trees are also classified as medicinal, ornamental or commercially useful ones.
Planting Trees is good for Our Environment
Trees grow according to the soil conditions, altitude, and climatic conditions of a place. Every place also has its own local or native tree species. It is ecologically wise to grow native tree species in a place. Growing exotic trees may not be good for the environment as the local birds and insects depend on and also help in the growth of native tree species.
Trees are planted in gardens, parks, commercial and residential areas and along avenues. The choice of planting trees also depends on the preferred aesthetic combination of the colours of the flowers. For example, the golden shower trees that bloom into yellow flowers, and the gulmohur trees that bear orange blossoms, can be planted alternately along an avenue for an interesting colour pattern during summer when both the trees are in full bloom.
Trees are Invaluable in Maintaining Ecological Balance
Trees are of great value to us. Tree parts such as roots, stems, leaves, flowers, fruits and seeds may be edible and may be consumed by man. Trees are food for all herbivorous animals and birds too. Trees are also a source of various products such as wood, rubber, oils and resins. Trees are home to many animals, birds, reptiles and insects too.
Trees have an important role to play in maintaining ecological balance and equilibrium. Trees help in holding the soil, and binding the top fertile layer of the soil. Trees help in maintaining the hydrological cycle. They, thus, help in maintaining the monsoon cycles and rainfall patterns. Trees also help in keeping the water table level high.
Trees give out oxygen and consume carbon-dioxide during the process of photosynthesis that occurs in them. Thus, they help in providing oxygen which we need to breathe to stay alive. By consuming carbon-dioxide, a greenhouse gas, trees help in checking global warming and climate change. Trees are invaluable and, therefore, must always be protected.